Hello, everyone.
So in the last part, we have created our main class, which is going to be responsible for testing
and running of our application.
Okay.
So here we created this timeline or Java file, and inside this timeline or Java file, we have created
a class, extended it to J frame and also added a main function which is going to like responsible for
running this timeline function or we can call it for the timeline of class.
Now again, we like introduced a constructor timeline which is containing the layout and the look of
the frame, how this frame is going to look, the exit and close button, the title and everything is
consistent inside this constructor and also making the frame resizable and visible, setting the boolean
variables to prove our case.
Also, we have created a base class which is extended to G panel.
Then what is this base is actually doing?
So we used card layout what actually a card layout is.
So a card layout is basically a class in Java which man manages the components in a manner that at the
time only one component is visible.
So how do we have so many components the home, the schedule, the timeline, the home page and the
end?
So basically they are present in a same application, but at the time only one page is visible.
Or we can say that only one card is visible.
So this card layout is enabling the font, like enabling the project to make only one page visible at
a specific time.
So yes, we have used this card layout for aligning this home help schedule, timeline and end page
in a project and making them visible one by one whenever they are called.
So now our next concern is to create a home class, or this home class is going to handle this frame
where you can see this part is like going to be covered inside the home class.
We are going to create a home Java file inside the ASIC folder only.
So yes, hitting on the right like right click and then you file creating a home Java file inside this
RC folder.
And here it is created a public class home.
So here you can see that we are having a home.
So as far we have created the home, the red underline from the home has disappeared.
Now we will creating the home class.
And so let us first extended the ACG panel again as we are going to have a dedicated panel for the home.
Okay.
So the import for the panel is made from the sewing library.
Now, inside the home class, we are going to like declare some of the objects such as base.
So we were having a base we created inside the main class.
So we are like declaring that base here also in order to access it in this file.
Also there is an intro in the home page.
We have already seen the central part had this intro part.
It is present as the center of the page and also what are the left things?
So these are two buttons we are having here, a start button and the help page button.
So let us create a buttons.
Four and call it as buttons.
So, yes, these are for the two buttons.
Now let us set the layout for the what we say the home.
So set layout and we are going to set the layout as.
Border layout like new border layout.
That is going to be a border layout.
Kind of like look given to this.
Pretty.
The homepage panel.
And the next concern is to set the like add the buttons and the intro part to the panel.
So here we are having.
These two buttons and these intro.
So we have to add this intro to the center of the layout and these buttons to the bottom of the page.
So, so looking at the layout here we are having this intro and the buttons.
So the buttons are presented the south of the page and the entrance present at the center of the page.
So here we have added the buttons and the intro according to the body layout.
So south for the buttons and center for the intro.
Now there are several inputs made in order to like use all of these packages inside our program.
So we have imported a lot of things from the AWG package, the card layout, the graphics, the grid
layout and the image has here is a major padding and available buttons.
So we are having buttons of course, action event and action is not for these making these two buttons
like a functioning.
So we have to add action listeners to these two buttons in order to make them functional.
Now we have already created this whole class.
Now moving forward, we have to create a paint paint component or we can call it as a paint component
function.
So public void paint component and this paint component is going to be okay.
So let me create it first.
Paint component graphics g we're calling the graphics g support paint component.
And passing.
Okay, so here it is.
Okay.
So here you can see that I have created a function paint component.
So what is this method actually doing?
So this method is needed to draw something on the panel other than the drawing that the background color.
So suppose there is a background color of a like a gray grayish background color and we have drawn this
background image to this homepage.
So for this we are like importing this paint component method.
This method is already existing in the panel class so that we need to use the super declaration to add
something to this method.
So we have used this super declaration to add this graphics g to the frame.
So yes, this was about this paint component.
Now the next part, which we are going to create is going to be the intro.
So we are going to create a class for the intro inside this form, that Java file.
So let us create the class for the intro.
The class intro, which we have already declared about and extending it to Japan and again.
Okay.
So our inside this class intro, we are again going to have a base and a G panel, which is going to
be a blank panel, basically where we have to write the content which is present.
So blank panel, yes, the suggestions are already having them and the text panel.
So we are going to write some of the text and also are going to attach an image in the background.
And after creating this intro constructor first in order to assign anything to it and again passing
the base B as the argument.
Now inside it, we are going to set a layout first.
So setting the layout as you create the layout.
So initially we were having a Baudelaire.
Now in this we are having a great layout.
We are going to divide grids for the heading, for the description and for the background.
So this grid layout is going to be like two is to one.
We can say that two is to one kind of frame.
So passing two, comma one.
Yes.
So we have set a layout for this intro.
Now the base.
Again setting it as B, so whenever we need it, we will call it as B and a text panel.
Which is going to like set a new display text method, display text.
And a bracket.
Okay.
So this is capital T.
And.
Inside this text panel, we will be writing some text and for the image.
We are importing some toolkits, so we have imported our image in order to display here.
This is a image I have already downloaded here inside this folder.
I have created a images folder and inside the images I have downloaded this image.
You can see this is the full image which is appearing here.
And I have set a layout for this image to look like this.
Here you can see the weight is like more and the height is less compared to this.
So this is due to the layout which we have set for it.
So now coming here, the method to attach any image is to use this dot get image method inside a bracket.
We have to pass the path of the image, like where the image is located and the name and its extension
in which format is stored.
So this image is basically importing the image inside the program.
Now, this is again G panel for the image we have created that this is the size I was talking about.
This is the layout of the image which is appearing here, the the distance from the x axis, y axis.
And these two are the or the height and the width of this image which is appearing here.
And we have again use this super method which we have already talked about here.
Whenever we want to invoke this brand component, we have to use this super keyword we can call it,
and the graphics we have already created.
So how this graphic should appear is done with the help of G dot and draw image.
So this G is going to import the graphics which we have already imported from the JWT library and this
image is basically a component from the graphics plus inside the AWP package, which will draw the image
according to the layout, whatever we have set for it.
Now again, adding the text panel and image on to the frame we have.
We have to use that keyword every time in order to add anything to the frame so that we have created
the intro class.
The next class, which we are going to create is this are the split text again extending it to J panel.
So this class is for displaying the text here.
You can see there are some of the text appearing in the frame.
Then this display text is containing the text which has to appear inside the home page or home class,
whatever we call it.
So we are having a J label for the title and the subtitle and the description.
So this is the title Task Planner.
This is the subtitle Task Management Made Easy and this is the description.
So all of all three of them we have declared as a label or and again, so there are three different
fonts for all three of them and you can see there are three different sizes for all three of them.
So creating this display text constructor inside the display text class, we have to set a layout.
So there is a three by one layout and you can see that three by one layout or again a grid layout.
We have created this great layout for the image and this.
So here you can see this is two by one.
This complete thing is one, this image is one and this is two by one grid layout.
But for this text part, we are having 3 to 1 grid layout.
So these are basically the types of layout according to which our panels are appearing inside the frame.
Okay.
So here we have added a title, a subtitle and the description.
So basically we can take them as three parts.
This is the first part.
This is the second part and this is the third part.
So these three parts are responsible for this one, two and three fourths, second and third.
So, yes, we have added some random description for this this subtitle and this main title.
So I see now what's left.
We have created this title.
We have added the image, now the buttons are left.
So coming to the buttons, we have to create a dedicated class for the buttons also.
And extending it to panel is similar to all of them, but we have to implement the buttons.
So as action listener as there are some actions attached to or two of the buttons.
So again like using this base J buttons for beginning and J button perhaps.
So we are using that these buttons, components of the swing library for these two buttons and setting
the layout in the similar manner we have set it for the above once one is to do grid layout.
Okay, so these two buttons are showing the text which is a padding on the button, and this part is
for adding action not to these two buttons.
So what actually these two buttons are doing what action is actually attached to them.
So these are the two actions.
So suppose we have created this action, perform function what these buttons are asking for.
So if we hit the start button, then that should navigate us to the set schedule java class.
If we hit the start now button, we should be navigated to this part and if we hit the help button,
then we should be shown the contents of this help page.
So yes, these are the two action results attached to the two of the buttons, and I think this was
all about the Java file.
We have created our home function, extended it to J panel and added all the components which is present
inside this frame.
Now in the next part we will be creating this schedule class and again, then help class.
So see you in the next part.